  
Our Endeavour

Vision 
A future where the opportunity to find purpose and joy through volunteering has been realised.  Through avenues of interest, passion, education, and community; benevolent contribution has been made commonplace.

Mission Statement

Atlas Unite is committed to improving the quality of life for people, animals and the planet itself through the empowerment of people’s skills and interests. By providing the tools needed to accomplish amazing things together, this organisation hopes to enable individuals to find fulfillment, joy and gratification through making positive change in the world. 

Values

Compassion
Integrity
Harmony
Virtue
Progress
Ambition
Fortitude
Realisation
Prosperity
Freedom
Security
Triumph
Fulfilment
Support
Education
Purpose


Purpose

Atlas Unite is a platform that empowers positive change by allowing people to donate their skills, interests, and purpose as a way of contributing to a better world. Atlas Unite’s purpose is to give every individual the opportunity to be cause for the most positive good one is capable of, by actively work towards supporting any person who wants to donate their time. To make volunteering a viable lifestyle, this organisation will work towards establishing structures that provide all the necessities to those who want to do greater good for the world.

Tailoring the task of volunteering to allow for a person’s strengths and passion has clear and obvious benefits, but this organisation hopes to accomplish more than that. By making the act of volunteering more accessible and varied, we intend to help in redefining charitable actions through making them an approachable norm. 

To be able to accomplish more across the broad spectrum of human activity and innovation, without jeopardising the quality of results, Atlas Unite is structured into fragments, with each division created around a specific cause or focus.  This allows volunteers to openly choose how they contribute to the organisation, by electing which divisions they spend their time in.

One of the launch divisions, Atlas Ink, exists as a platform where those who enjoy writing, photography, art, editing or anything relevant to print and still media can contribute their interests. Volunteers who opt into this division will create collaborative, user-generated content that will result in products, such as novels or magazines.  The proceeds from each product will then go towards an elected cause, which could vary from an internal endeavour within Atlas Unite, to external charities.
 
In having individual causes for each project, the end results won't just be a number.  It will be a physical change in the world that everyone will be able to see.  In emphasising the outcomes of each project, Atlas Unite not only promotes itself, but reinforces the importance of the individual's contributions and the difference they make.  This will provide strong incentive for those who want to do some good to keep doing so.

Divisions will be structured to perpetuate almost free of administerial intervention, as new volunteers are mentored and organised by veteran members of the community.  This absence of overbearing authority ensures there's never any dismissal of a person's place amongst our community. Through facilitating a platform where everyone has equal opportunity to have their say, good ideas that could change the world will have a much greater chance of being heard.

As a pedestal for every volunteer and their voice, this organisation will utilise the power of innovation. We intend to harness ideas, which could vary from stories for a new book, a fresh approach to addressing problems in our society and the world, and grand collaborations. Those with the potential to make great change around them will have that opportunity.

Volunteers that are new to a division will have access to the base, contributory roles. This doesn’t diminish their importance, as these roles will often be the most vital for a project’s success. As they learn the ropes and demonstrate their reliability, they will ‘level up’ within the division, and gain access to roles that require experience and responsibility.  Depending on the division, this could mean pitching projects, overseeing events and organising volunteers.

Not only does this system alleviate any restrictions in the growth of this organisation, it also reinforces the importance of volunteers and their initiative - it’s their ideas and contributions that make a difference.

Through having each division oriented around ensured equality, with no volunteers rising above others as they gain more experience, Atlas Unite will strive to sustain an environment that is accepting and encouraging of individuality.

Atlas Unite’s purpose is to facilitate those who share the same goals as ourselves.  Working with local groups and charities, we will orchestrate fundraisers, projects and even events on their behalf.
 
To have arts contribute to positive change in such a clear, direct way, we will be able to reward everyone. Customers enjoy a great product, creators will get to spend their time doing something they enjoy, and everyone will get to benefit from the results the proceeds produce.
 
Through facilitating a platform where grand accomplishments will be visible to the individuals responsible, by promoting arts and creation, and constantly rewarding everyone that contributes to Atlas Unite, we hope to inspire as much happiness as possible to those within our movement.
 
Through visible results, happy volunteers, quality products, absolute equality and no restrictions on growth, Atlas Unite will endeavour to fulfil its namesake; connect everyone for greater causes.


Structure

Atlas Unite's infrastructure has been refined to allow for growth, momentum, accomplishment, security, and joy. 

To enable people to volunteer their specific skills and interests towards a better cause, Atlas Unite will be home to numerous divisions that accommodate many different aspects of human activity.  This will also allow the organisation to effectively operate, maintaining a clear focus on all its activities.

Divisions of Atlas Unite are broken up into further sub-divisions, further organising the roles into keener aspects of the denoted cause or reason.  For example; Atlas Ink is broken up into four sub-divisions that focus on different elements in literature and print.  One focuses on fiction, while another on news and media.

By operating through divisions, this organisation can expand only as it’s prepared to do so, ensuring the stability of the movement isn’t ever jeopardised by over-reaching its resources.  While only launching with 3, there are many more divisions that could be implemented if Atlas Unite reaches its potential, which, in turn, allows members of the organisation to reach their full potential.

As more volunteers join each division, there will never be an absence of opportunities to contribute. Through an ‘Experience’ system, newcomers to any division will only be able to access contributory roles, such as submitting content or helping out with hands-on work.

As individuals achieve and show consistent engagement with Atlas Unite’s activities and community, they receive Experience points.  When they have enough, they can level up and gain access to the next tier of roles.

The tiers are often broken into 5 levels;
 
1 :  0 exp required
2 :  10 exp required
3 :  100 exp required
4 :  1,000 exp required
5 :  10,000 exp required
 
The radical, exponential difference in each tier allows for graded access.  By the third tier, where it begins to plateau, volunteers will have access to most of the necessary roles.  Tiers 4 and 5 will usually host the positions that oversee and organise projects and events within the division.
 
Volunteers are encouraged to still participate in the lower tiered roles as they progress. With access to more experience and reward points by working alongside the team they organise, volunteers filling the higher tiered roles will be encouraged to lead by example, while also ensuring that those with experience still participate in all positions.

Projects with more participants garner additional ‘Reward’ points for the volunteers who organise them, encouraging participation and ensuring the quality of service is always at its best.

'Reward Points' can be exchanged for in-house products, equipment hire and access to recreational facilities partnered with/owned by Atlas Unite. To encourage volunteers to make actual use of these resources, the points they earn expire after an allocated time (e.g. 3 months).

This also ensures that rewards are always accessible, with none being worth more than the lifespan of Reward Points, while also giving cause for volunteers to remain consistent and active.

The Emblem system was developed to ensure a safe environment amongst our volunteers, while also providing an opportunity to promote education and accomplishment with the members of our community - even when they’re not actively participating in Atlas Unite itself.

Like the rest of this organisation, the Emblem system is launching as a shadow of its potential.  It works in cooperation with the Reward system, where earning badges can alter the rate you earn benefits.

At launch, there will only be one - the Unity emblem. This will be the only mandatory badge volunteers will have to earn to be a part of the community, as it serves as an acceptance of the code of conduct.  To earn it, volunteers have to understand that they will be expected to promote acceptance, inclusiveness, and equality.

If a volunteer behaves in a way that doesn’t comply with these expectations, they can lose the Unity emblem, which will restrict them from the Reward system. They will have the chance to earn it back through good behaviour or an in-house class on the impacts of relevant negative behaviours.

Other Emblem badges will be implemented as the organisation grows, including one that forsakes all Reward points and allows you to re-earn them while accomplishing personal goals.
Through experience and reward, Atlas Unite could become a welcoming environment that incentivises achievement and promotes happiness.
The medium and means of volunteering available are dependent on membership, which vary to allow for the broadest range of individuals to contribute.
Orbit
Auxiliary membership available to everyone, providing opportunities without the need to fulfil the requirements of full registration.
Access to group activities and roles open to the public.
No input on Prospects, Projects, Branches, Streams.
Minimal contribution to the direction and objectives of the Organisation.
Requires only full name, email address and contact number.
Mantle
Complete membership that provides access to Atlas Unite’s platform and resources. Application is open to everybody providing:
Adequate proof of identity;
Contact details;
Next of kin information;
Relevant criminal history checks;
Additional checks required for those that share activities with children, disabled, elderly, or otherwise vulnerable.
Acceptance of the Code of Conduct.
Core
Volunteers that consistently contribute gain greater accessibility to Atlas Unite’s resources and facilities, with further discounts, prioritized bookings, etc.





Atlas Index
Purpose


Atlas Index fulfils the administerial roles within Atlas Unite, as well as providing an opportunity to always be looking inwards, monitoring the progress of the organisation, and searching for ways it can grow and improve.

Unlike other divisions, which exist for external causes, Index's constant focus on the internal runnings will enable Atlas Unite to be always moving, always improving and always accomplishing the most it can, at any given time.

Aim

Our aim for Atlas Index is to foster and grow a small community of people that believe in the potential of Atlas Unite.  With a team of passionate volunteers constantly working towards expanding and reinforcing the organisation as a whole, this movement would secure its future and ensure it's always operating at its best, for its best.

Structure

Like all divisions, Atlas Index is further broken into sub-division, all with individual goals and core responsibilities.  In doing this, we hope to ensure all aspects of Atlas Unite are constantly operating at their best.  This division will host volunteers as they work towards maintaining and ensuring the effectiveness of the organisation, establishing and nurturing new divisions, promoting and advertising our accomplishments, maintaining paperwork and other administerial roles, minimising Atlas Unite's impact on the environment, internal communication, overseeing the points, rewards and facilities, and recruiting more volunteers.

Atlas Index will not be launching with subdivisions in place, but will strive towards implementing them when the time is ready.  Listed below is the planned outline of what each potential sub-division would exist to focus on.


Tapak: Impact Reduction
Atlas Unite will always strive to operate with an absolute minimal environmental footprint, and Tapak will be responsible for researching and implementing the evolving solutions required as the organisation expands.

Nota: Paperwork & Finances
To ensure Atlas Unite remains compliant and financially sound, this subdivision will be committed to the maintenance of the organisation's paperwork, incomings and outgoings.

Sonas: Reward & Facility Management
For Atlas Unite to become the most incentivised, inviting environment for people to join, this subdivision will be providing a constantly growing and changing list of ways volunteers can reap the benefits of their hard work.  By constantly providing more facilities, like private cinemas, sports arenas, game environments and exciting events, volunteers can spend their reward points making their life more enjoyable.  Additionally, reward points can be exchanged for products Atlas Unite is responsible for.  This can vary from books to computer games, clothes to artwork

Chia: Presence
For maximum reach and affect, Atlas Unite needs a bold, visible identity in the local communities and online.  Chia covers advertising, online video and content production, branding and public relations

Looma: Structural Expansion
To enact the plans created by Strata, Looma focuses on launching and maintaining new divisions within Atlas Unite


Strata: Direction
Responsible for the planning, implementation and nurturing of new divisions, Strata is vital in the success of Atlas Unite.  Its volunteers will be required to research the needs of local communities, creative arts and world problems, before bringing together professionals and experts to help forge the next branch of achievement within this organisation. 

Alma: Recruiting
Atlas Unite depends on volunteers for success.  Alma is responsible for campaigns and events designed to garner more contributors to the organisation.  Will often work in conjunction with Chia and Telamon Yellow.

Endring: Efficiency and Impact
Constantly ensuring Atlas Unite is operating at its full potential, Endring volunteers will address systems and structures within the organisation, ensuring they are as effective and streamlined as possible.

Leren: Training
Volunteers organise seminars and shows with industry professionals and leaders, promoting the education of that division's field.  Leren will also supervise training hosted within Atlas Unite for external charities, to enable both our volunteers, and theirs, to be more readily available and prepared for all organisations involved.








Atlas Telamon (Locals Unite)

Purpose

Atlas Telamon will make visible change within communities, whether it be through local events or environmental campaigns.  Projects will be tailored to that area's needs and run by local volunteers.


Aim

By providing a platform that promotes proactivity in the immediate area, Atlas Unite hopes to spark a sense of responsibility for the condition of one’s vicinity.  In doing so, we hope to see the streets become cleaner, the waterways; clearer, the residents; happier, and the world; better.

By having a structure that operates entirely on people power, with levels and roles being handled automatically by the websites, Atlas Telamon could be operated entirely remotely.




Structure

Atlas Telamon can address the different aspects of community involvement in the visibly different subdivisions, with each of its seven streams denoted by a different colour of the rainbow.

Green: Environmental
Volunteers will organise and attend events that are designed to improve the environment, such as creek clean-ups, tree-plantings and litter collecting.
Violet: Community Aid
This subdivision specifically focuses on helping individuals and groups within communities.  From entertainment at retirement homes to cleaning bees, Violet also focuses on community involvement by providing events that anyone and everyone can participate in, often working in conjunction with the other subdivisions of Telamon.
Blue: Personal Care and Involvement
For those that need help with access within communities can receive assistance from volunteers within this subdivision.
Indigo: Animal Rescue
For the safety and health of any animals, including pets, Indigo will provide facilities and volunteers.
Red: External Volunteering
Telamon Red sees volunteers organising and running events on behalf of charities or causes outside of Atlas Unite.
Orange: Emergency Response
When people need help suddenly and urgently, such as after a natural disaster or destructive storm, Orange volunteers will provide assistance.
Yellow: Promotional
Index Chia and Telamon Yellow will often work together to create advertising campaigns, but this subdivision will also oversee street teams and events promoting Atlas Unite and Telamon.


The only divisions that won't be active from launch are Blue and Indigo, which will require further training and facilities.


Atlas Ink
Purpose
Atlas Ink will provide a platform for those interested in literature, photography, digital art, news and/or media, to contribute to products and content that raise proceeds and awareness for numerous causes, both within Atlas Unite and externally.

Aim
By enabling authors, artists, photographers, editors, journalists and proofreaders to contribute to positive change with their skills, Atlas Ink could become a hub to creativity and grand collaboration, with projects of all varying sizes.

Some products could be created by as little as one person, or as many as one thousand.  With each product having an elected cause, volunteers will be able to see the direct results from their contributions, hopefully inciting more activity.

Structure
Most projects taken on by Atlas Ink will be done entirely online, with the organisation, creation, curation and distribution handled entirely by the website.  Roles will automatically become available to volunteers as they garner more experience and move up through the tiers.

Cyan
Responsible for the creation of novels and fiction, Cyan will host tasks such as concept development, writing, editing, proof-reading, and product packaging

Magenta
With Textbooks and non-fiction being produced through this subdivision, Ink Magenta will host some of the larger collaborations within Ink.  Many books will have thousands of contributors.

Yellow
Volunteers will get to collaborate together to produce graphic novels, comic books and other visual/literature mediums in this subdivision.

Key
Finding a home for those interested in journalism, media and news, Ink Key will produce magazines and newsletters.


Aura

Atlas’s PR 
